>> Marcy Sutton: I'm gonna go over
the Vanilla JavaScript example and
then we'll take a little bit of a break.
So, this tab switcher,
I'll leave this one, close this.
So this example is just like the other
one, it's got the arrow key navigation,
I can cycle through these tab switchers,
it's got Aria in it, added dynamically.
So this tab switcher I went and did some
cleanup on the CSS classes cuz originally
I didn't even write this to be thinking
about progressive [LAUGH] enhancement.
It's good to think about it first,
but so I cleaned those up,
I did add this no-js class.
And in the CSS I believe, yeah, so
here are the bottom I have this no-js,
if that class is present because
JavaScript hasn't removed
it that's where I can go and
play with the style.
So I just hid the tabs,
like if it's not interactive what
are the tabs there for, really?
Maybe you might need it for
heading purposes to match the content but
depending if the tabs are all in a row and
the tab panels are all in a row
then that will make sense.
So depending on how your
tab switcher is marked up,
you might need to change that,
but I just hid them all.
And then the tab-content
I have a display here
just turning those so
that all of them are back on.
I did experiment playing with the target,
the target selector in the browser,
so that I think, yeah, I don't know
if I actually [LAUGH] finished this.
But the idea was that if I do use these
links that I could actually match
the target in the URL to a region in
the page, the target selector, and
CSS does that, but we could go
look at the JavaScript for this.
So using Vanilla JavaScript,
I added a document.querySelector,
go and find that no-js class and
remove it.
So find that element access its
class list and remove no-js.
And then I'm doing the scripting to
actually bind this as a tab switcher.
So going and
finding the tabs using querySelector all,
the tab panels,
creating an array from the tabs.
So when you use querySelector all, I don't
know if anyone else has run into this,
but it returns you a node list and
not an array.
Huge pain for a long time,
and the quickest,
easiest thing I found is to just
convert it to an array with array.from.
That requires support for array.from,
you might need a poly fill or
you can just use a for-loop and
iterate over them too, but
since I have Babel turned on here
in Code pen, I just went for it.
So then I iterate over these tabs and
go and add a role of tab,
the aria-controls that's a state,
Aria control state, and
I point it to each tab panel, so go and
just grab the ID off of the tab panels.
I'm removing these so to sort of help
me out in dynamically binding these.
I didn't have any Aria on here cuz I
didn't want screen readers to encounter
this and be like, what is this
controlling, it's not interactive?
So I used a data attribute instead but
that's a method you could use.
Like if you safely want to
kind of store attributes for
later in your mark up before JavaScript
takes over you could use data attributes.
The tab panels I'm going through each of
those just since there's a one to one,
there's three tabs, three tab panels.
When I'm iterating over the tabs, I can go
and add a role of tab panel to each one,
and then I've got some code to go and
get the current tab.
So starting up here,
store a variable of which tab
index is the active one, I start at 0.
I have a kind of reusable
function here to get
the reference from the tab panels,
or sorry, the tabs.
Each one has an href,
this is were that target selector
came in because the href of each tab.
I believe these were bottoms originally
and I converted them the links so
that I could used that internal linking so
that when I click on a link I send
it to the ID that matches that href,
the internal link.
And so I can use that to get
a reference between the tab and
then its associated tab panel.
Let's see,
let's go back down to the bottom.
So for each tab,
each one has a click listener,
because I'm sort of like
progressively layering on top,
I'm overriding what the link
would normally do, and so
I'm preventing its default action,
and I'm using that to change the tab.
So when I iterate over each tab
I know which index it is cuz
I'm iterating over a collection.
I can go and add,
I'm gonna change this to keyup based
on Amy's great suggestions earlier.
So I've got a keyup listener and
I can change keyCode to key,
I don't know, actually remember
what the stream names are so
you probably wanna change the deprecated
key code to something more modern.
[LAUGH] Just logging the event object
when you interact with it you can go and
play with that and that might come up
a little bit layer in our testing section.
But then I have these reusable
functions of a prevArrowkeyHandler and
a nextArrowkeyHandler and I pass it
which tab index I'm currently on.
So that way I can keep a reference
of like which one was current last,
and I can increment and decrement.
So the prevArrowkeyHandler checks if
the current index is greater than 0 cuz
I don't wanna get an error trying to left
arrow off the screen [LAUGH] somewhere it
doesn't exist.
So if the index is greater
than 0 I can go and
get the tab that matches
the index to the left.
And I will send focus to it, so
that I'm in the right place.
The changeTab function just goes and
unsets the tabs each time,
so it goes and
removes an active CSS class,
that's what changes the display,
it changes the aria-selected state.
So this is one of those where adding it
when JavaScript loads is helpful because
then screen readers won't
be like what's selected?
Why can't I change it?
Why is this on here?
So I can add that dynamically and
then manage it like turning it on and off.
And then, yeah, just kind of,
I just go unset them that was
the easiest way to do that.
And then for the currentTab I go and
add aria-selected if true,
give it an active class on both
the tab and the tab panel.
Set the currentTab index to the one that
the handlers have decided is the one.
So a little bit of like conditional logic
to check that we're in bounds here.
So that's what I ended up doing for
this one.
So that's how you can use JavaScript
to kind of like turn things on and off.
And it does sort of go against some of
the conventional wisdom of overwriting
elements.
Like I'm starting with an anchor and
adding, like I'm stopping its default
action, and I'm adding a role on top of
that, so it might feel a little gross.
But what that means is
that without JavaScript,
that anchor will function like
an anchor and I can use that.
So maybe that's, for
progressive enhancement purposes,
that might be the right choice to make.
Just know that if you get pushed back or
something just try and
communicate your motivation and the
reasons why you would be doing this and
you can come to a maybe even
better solution together.